[{"paper":{"id":"2608.22449","authors":[{"_id":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97d9","user":{"_id":"65acc55cb68db4f26ea554bc","avatarUrl":"/avatars/e2be049b80c3044c9d31d4167feba4c9.svg","isPro":false,"fullname":"W Wang","user":"LBanBan","type":"user","name":"LBanBan"},"name":"Wen Wang","status":"claimed_verified","statusLastChangedAt":"2026-08-25T16:10:54.562Z","hidden":false},{"_id":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97da","name":"Ruibing Hou","hidden":false},{"_id":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97db","name":"Hong Chang","hidden":false},{"_id":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97dc","name":"Shiguang Shan","hidden":false},{"_id":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97dd","name":"Xilin Chen","hidden":false}],"publishedAt":"2026-08-23T00:00:00.000Z","title":"EMPIRE: Explicit Manipulation Planning as a Learnable Intermediate Representation for Egocentric Hand-Motion Forecasting","summary":"Forecasting dexterous hand motions from egocentric observations is fundamental to intelligent interactive systems. Existing VLM-based methods typically map observations directly to future motions, overlooking the underlying manipulation process that governs hand-object interactions. Moreover, end-to-end optimization couples manipulation learning with motion synthesis, causing motion-generation gradients to interfere with the pre-learned manipulation-aware representations. To overcome these limitations, we propose EMPIRE, a two-stage framework that introduces Explicit Manipulation Planning as an Intermediate Representation for Egocentric hand-motion forecasting. Stage I: Learn to Plan. EMPIRE first learns explicit manipulation plans from multimodal context to capture the progression of hand-object interactions. Stage II: Learn to Act. A motion generator synthesizes future bimanual hand motions conditioned on frozen planner representations, preventing motion-generation gradients from affecting manipulation planning. To support our method, we further construct EMPIRE-651K, a bimanual hand-motion forecasting dataset comprising 650,910 training windows across 111 tasks, each paired with an explicit per-hand manipulation plan. Under identical training and evaluation protocols, EMPIRE achieves state-of-the-art forecasting accuracy, with an MPJPE of 84.53 mm and a finger-relative error of 38.97mm. We release the code and dataset at https://github.com/wangwen-banban/EMPIRE.","upvotes":1,"discussionId":"6a8d28e75add2537c32e97de","ai_summary":"EMPIRE decouples manipulation planning from motion synthesis via frozen intermediate representations to improve egocentric bimanual hand-motion forecasting.","ai_keywords":["egocentric hand-motion forecasting","VLM-based methods","manipulation planning","intermediate representation","frozen planner representations","bimanual hand motions","MPJPE"],"ai_summary_model":"thinkingmachines/Inkling-Small"},"publishedAt":"2026-08-22T20:00:00.000Z","title":"EMPIRE: Explicit Manipulation Planning as a Learnable Intermediate Representation for Egocentric Hand-Motion Forecasting","summary":"Forecasting dexterous hand motions from egocentric observations is fundamental to intelligent interactive systems. Existing VLM-based methods typically map observations directly to future motions, overlooking the underlying manipulation process that governs hand-object interactions. Moreover, end-to-end optimization couples manipulation learning with motion synthesis, causing motion-generation gradients to interfere with the pre-learned manipulation-aware representations. To overcome these limitations, we propose EMPIRE, a two-stage framework that introduces Explicit Manipulation Planning as an Intermediate Representation for Egocentric hand-motion forecasting. Stage I: Learn to Plan. EMPIRE first learns explicit manipulation plans from multimodal context to capture the progression of hand-object interactions. Stage II: Learn to Act. A motion generator synthesizes future bimanual hand motions conditioned on frozen planner representations, preventing motion-generation gradients from affecting manipulation planning. To support our method, we further construct EMPIRE-651K, a bimanual hand-motion forecasting dataset comprising 650,910 training windows across 111 tasks, each paired with an explicit per-hand manipulation plan. Under identical training and evaluation protocols, EMPIRE achieves state-of-the-art forecasting accuracy, with an MPJPE of 84.53 mm and a finger-relative error of 38.97mm. We release the code and dataset at https://github.com/wangwen-banban/EMPIRE.","thumbnail":"https://cdn-thumbnails.huggingface.co/social-thumbnails/papers/2608.22449.png","numComments":0,"upvoted":false,"isAuthorParticipating":false,"highlightedTitle":[{"type":"highlight","text":"EMPIRE"},{"type":"text","text":": Explicit Manipulation Planning as a Learnable Intermediate Representation for Egocentric Hand-Motion Forecasting"}],"highlightedSummary":[{"type":"text","text":"Forecasting dexterous hand motions from egocentric observations is fundamental to intelligent interactive systems. Existing VLM-based methods typically map observations directly to future motions, overlooking the underlying manipulation process that governs hand-object interactions. Moreover, end-to-end optimization couples manipulation learning with motion synthesis, causing motion-generation gradients to interfere with the pre-learned manipulation-aware representations. To overcome these limitations, we propose EMPIRE, a two-stage framework that introduces Explicit Manipulation Planning as an Intermediate Representation for Egocentric hand-motion forecasting. Stage I: Learn to Plan. EMPIRE first learns explicit manipulation plans from multimodal context to capture the progression of hand-object interactions. Stage II: Learn to Act. A motion generator synthesizes future bimanual hand motions conditioned on frozen planner representations, preventing motion-generation gradients from affecting manipulation planning. To support our method, we further construct EMPIRE-651K, a bimanual hand-motion forecasting dataset comprising 650,910 training windows across 111 tasks, each paired with an explicit per-hand manipulation plan. Under identical training and evaluation protocols, EMPIRE achieves state-of-the-art forecasting accuracy, with an MPJPE of 84.53 mm and a finger-relative error of 38.97mm. We release the code and dataset at https://github.com/wangwen-banban/EMPIRE."}]},{"paper":{"id":"2605.31514","authors":[{"_id":"6a336de659127a45e2c1c646","name":"Adrian de Wynter","hidden":false}],"publishedAt":"2026-06-11T00:00:00.000Z","title":"If LLMs Have Human-Like Attributes, Then So Does Age of Empires II","summary":"Much research has been carried out on large language models (LLMs) and LLM-powered agentic workflows. However, many works within the field state emergence of, ascribe to, or assume, generalised anthropomorphic attributes to them (e.g., morality or understanding of natural language). Our goal is not to argue in favour or against the existence of these attributes, but to point out that these conclusions could be incorrect. For this we build and train a simple neural network on the videogame Age of Empires II, and note that any entity in a sufficiently-powerful substrate, such as LEGO or the Greater Boston Area, could also present such attributes. Hence, the purported anthropomorphic attributes of LLMs are empirically non-unique: although some properties (e.g., responses to prompts) could remain invariant, others, such as the interpretation of their perceived behaviour, might change with the substrate. Thus, any empirically-grounded discussion on these attributes requires explicit measurement criteria; otherwise the interpretation is left to the representation. We then show that assuming that these attributes exist or not in a system, independent of the substrate and in a generalised way, leads to either circular or uninformative conclusions. This is regardless of the experimenter's viewpoint on the subject, or whether the outcome shows existence or non-existence. Finally we propose a 'null' assumption, where one assumes LLM non-uniqueness instead of assuming anthropomorphic attributes to set up an experiment, along with examples of it. We also discuss potential objections to our work, briefly survey the field, and prove that Age of Empires II is functionally- and Turing-complete.","upvotes":0,"discussionId":"6a336de759127a45e2c1c647","ai_summary":"Large language models exhibit anthropomorphic attributes that may be substrate-dependent, requiring explicit measurement criteria for empirical analysis rather than generalized assumptions.","ai_keywords":["large language models","agentic workflows","neural network","Age of Empires II","substrate","empirically-grounded discussion","measurement criteria","anthropomorphic attributes","functional completeness","Turing-completeness"],"ai_summary_model":"Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct"},"publishedAt":"2026-06-10T20:00:00.000Z","title":"If LLMs Have Human-Like Attributes, Then So Does Age of Empires II","summary":"Much research has been carried out on large language models (LLMs) and LLM-powered agentic workflows. However, many works within the field state emergence of, ascribe to, or assume, generalised anthropomorphic attributes to them (e.g., morality or understanding of natural language). Our goal is not to argue in favour or against the existence of these attributes, but to point out that these conclusions could be incorrect. For this we build and train a simple neural network on the videogame Age of Empires II, and note that any entity in a sufficiently-powerful substrate, such as LEGO or the Greater Boston Area, could also present such attributes. Hence, the purported anthropomorphic attributes of LLMs are empirically non-unique: although some properties (e.g., responses to prompts) could remain invariant, others, such as the interpretation of their perceived behaviour, might change with the substrate. Thus, any empirically-grounded discussion on these attributes requires explicit measurement criteria; otherwise the interpretation is left to the representation. We then show that assuming that these attributes exist or not in a system, independent of the substrate and in a generalised way, leads to either circular or uninformative conclusions. This is regardless of the experimenter's viewpoint on the subject, or whether the outcome shows existence or non-existence. Finally we propose a 'null' assumption, where one assumes LLM non-uniqueness instead of assuming anthropomorphic attributes to set up an experiment, along with examples of it. We also discuss potential objections to our work, briefly survey the field, and prove that Age of Empires II is functionally- and Turing-complete.","thumbnail":"https://cdn-thumbnails.huggingface.co/social-thumbnails/papers/2605.31514.png","numComments":0,"upvoted":false,"isAuthorParticipating":false,"highlightedTitle":[{"type":"text","text":"If LLMs Have Human-Like Attributes, Then So Does Age of "},{"type":"highlight","text":"Empire"},{"type":"text","text":"s II"}],"highlightedSummary":[{"type":"text","text":"Much research has been carried out on large language models (LLMs) and LLM-powered agentic workflows. However, many works within the field state emergence of, ascribe to, or assume, generalised anthropomorphic attributes to them (e.g., morality or understanding of natural language). Our goal is not to argue in favour or against the existence of these attributes, but to point out that these conclusions could be incorrect. For this we build and train a simple neural network on the videogame Age of "},{"type":"highlight","text":"Empire"},{"type":"text","text":"s II, and note that any entity in a sufficiently-powerful substrate, such as LEGO or the Greater Boston Area, could also present such attributes. Hence, the purported anthropomorphic attributes of LLMs are empirically non-unique: although some properties (e.g., responses to prompts) could remain invariant, others, such as the interpretation of their perceived behaviour, might change with the substrate. Thus, any empirically-grounded discussion on these attributes requires explicit measurement criteria; otherwise the interpretation is left to the representation. We then show that assuming that these attributes exist or not in a system, independent of the substrate and in a generalised way, leads to either circular or uninformative conclusions. This is regardless of the experimenter's viewpoint on the subject, or whether the outcome shows existence or non-existence. Finally we propose a 'null' assumption, where one assumes LLM non-uniqueness instead of assuming anthropomorphic attributes to set up an experiment, along with examples of it. We also discuss potential objections to our work, briefly survey the field, and prove that Age of Empires II is functionally- and Turing-complete."}]}]