DreamZero: World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
DreamZero: World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Seonghyeon Ye
†
Yunhao Ge
*
Kaiyuan Zheng
*
Shenyuan Gao
*
Sihyun Yu
*
George Kurian
*
Suneel Indupuru
*
You Liang Tan
*
Chuning Zhu
Jiannan Xiang
Ayaan Malik
Kyungmin Lee
William Liang
Nadun Ranawaka
Jiasheng Gu
Yinzhen Xu
Guanzhi Wang
Fengyuan Hu
Avnish Narayan
Johan Bjorck
Jing Wang
Gwanghyun Kim
Dantong Niu
Ruijie Zheng
Yuqi Xie
Jimmy Wu
Qi Wang
Ryan Julian
Danfei Xu
Yilun Du
Yevgen Chebotar
Scott Reed
Jan Kautz
Yuke Zhu
†
Linxi "Jim" Fan
†
Joel Jang
†
NVIDIA
†
Project Leads
*
Core Contributors
Paper
•
Code
•
Eval Gallery
•
State-of-the-art
Vision-Language-Action (VLA)
models excel at
semantic generalization
but struggle to generalize to unseen physical motions in novel environments. We introduce
DreamZero
, a
World Action Model (WAM)
built upon a pretrained video diffusion backbone. Unlike VLAs, WAMs learn physical dynamics by jointly predicting future world states and actions, using video as a dense representation of how the world evolves. By jointly modeling video and action, DreamZero learns diverse skills effectively from heterogeneous robot data without relying on repetitive demonstrations. This results in over 2x improvement in generalization to
new tasks and environments
compared to state-of-the-art VLAs in real-robot experiments. Crucially, through model and system optimizations, we enable a 14B autoregressive video diffusion model to perform real-time
closed-loop control at 7Hz.
Finally, we demonstrate two forms of cross-embodiment transfer: video-only demonstrations from humans or other robots yield over 42% improvement on unseen tasks with just 10–20 minutes of data. More surprisingly, DreamZero adapts to an entirely new robot (YAM) with only
30 minutes of play data
while retaining zero-shot generalization.
We show DreamZero's capability across six settings—five testing generalization, and one demonstrating real-time deployment:
1
AgiBot Pretraining
10 seen tasks + 10 unseen tasks, evaluated zero-shot in novel environments with unseen objects
2
DROID Pretraining
Franka: 20 seen tasks + 20 unseen tasks, evaluated zero-shot in novel environments with unseen objects
3
Post-Training
AgiBot: Fine-tuning on 3 downstream tasks while retaining out-of-distribution robustness
4
New Embodiment Adaptation
Post-trained on just 30 minutes of data (55 trajectories), DreamZero achieves zero-shot generalization on a new embodiment (YAM robot)
5
Interactive Prompting
Zero-shot prompting in the wild—taking the robot around and asking people to prompt new tasks
6
Real-Time Inference
38× speedup through model and system optimizations, enabling 7Hz closed-loop control
1
AgiBot Pretraining: Seen & Unseen Tasks
We evaluate pretrained models out-of-the-box on tasks from the pretraining distribution, but in
zero-shot environments with unseen objects
. DreamZero (also trained from scratch) achieves 62.2% average task progress—over 2× higher than the best pretrained VLA baseline (27.4%). VLAs trained from scratch achieve near-zero performance, while pretrained VLAs show modest progress. For tasks entirely absent from training—such as untying shoelaces and shaking hands—DreamZero reaches 39.5% task progress while VLAs again struggle. Notably, the limited task progress from pretrained VLAs on unseen tasks stems from defaulting to pick-and-place motions regardless of the instruction, suggesting they overfit to dominant training behaviors rather than understanding novel task semantics. We evaluate 80 rollouts per checkpoint across 4 robots, each in different environments with different objects.
Seen Tasks:
Pick & Place Fruit
Take Fruit out of Bag
Wipe the Mess
|
Pick & Place Fork/Spoon
Pen in Cup
Cup on Coaster
Stack Bowls/Cups
|
Folding Shirts
Folding Shorts
Stacking Clothes
●
PnP-Easy
●
PnP-Hard
●
Contact-Rich
Show Generated Videos from DreamZero
Pick up the banana on the table and place it in the blue plate. | ✅
Pick up the red apple on the table and place it on the gray towel. | ✅
Pick up the green pear on the table and place it on the blue checkered bowl. | ✅
Pick up the starfruit on the table and place it on the cloth basket. | ✅
←
→
Unseen Tasks:
Untie Shoe/Gift
Take Hat Off/On from Mannequin
Draw a Circle
Take out the Straw
Stack the Cubes
Paint with the Brush
Iron the Clothes
Shake Hands with the Human
Fold the Map
Pulling Cart
Show Generated Videos from DreamZero
Untie the blue ribobon of the box. | ✅
Untie the knot of the shoelace. | ✅
Untie the knot of the package. | ✅
Untie the knot of the present box. | ✅
←
→
* Some videos were recorded before final inference optimization integration. See Section 3 for our smoothest real-time rollouts.
2
DROID: Seen Tasks & Unseen Verbs
To validate on publicly available data, we train DreamZero on
DROID
—one of the most heterogeneous open-source robotic datasets. We evaluate on 20 seen tasks and 20 tasks with
unseen verbs
(actions absent from DROID). DreamZero outperforms pretrained baselines, achieving 49% task progress on unseen verbs compared to 25-32% for state-of-the-art VLAs.
Seen Tasks
Unseen Verbs
Show Generated Videos from DreamZero
Move the cup forward then put the marker inside the cup | ✅
Put the marker in the blue box | ✅
Remove the pair of gloves from the open drawer and put it on the table | ✅
Put the marker on table | ✅
Put the towel on the white cup | ✅
Put the towel in the pan | ✅
Put the hat on the table | ✅
Put the pair of scissors into the drawer | ✅
Put the towel in the basket | ✅
Move the bowl on the left to the right side of the table. | ✅
Pick up the pencil and put it on the bowl | ✅
Pick the marker up from the table and put it in the bowl | ✅
Place the bowl next to the marker | ✅
Remove a lemon from the bowl | ✅
Move the grapes to the left | ✅
Move the green grapes backwards | ✅
Put the bread inside the toaster | ✅
Put the banana on the green plate | ✅
Put the ‘red’ cube on ‘top’ of the yellow cube | ✅
Slide plate to left side of table | ✅
Pick up the apple and put it in the basket | ❌
←
→
3
Post-Training: Out-of-Distribution Generalization
We investigate whether WAMs retain their generalization after being fine-tuning on task-specific data. We post-train on three downstream tasks :
shirt folding
,
fruit packing
, and
table bussing
. DreamZero enables stronger post-training results across three tasks, indicating that environment generalization is retained after post-training.
Table Bussing (5 trash & 5 dishware)
Fruit packing (10 fruits)
Shirt Folding
Table Bussing (5 trash & 5 dishware)
: 10 consecutive evaluations |
Task Progress: 81%
* This is a uncut recording of a single evaluation session.
4
New Embodiment Adaptation
With only
30 minutes
of play data (55 trajectories), DreamZero adapts to the YAM robot and generalizes zero-shot to novel objects like pumpkins, teddy bears, and paper bags, exhibiting strong language following capabilities. The knowledge gained from AgiBot pretraining transfers directly—no massive retraining required. To our understanding, this is the most efficient embodiment transfer yet—what previously demanded hundreds of hours of demonstrations, we accomplish in 30 minutes (no other YAM data was used). See the full 30-minute play dataset
here
.
Cup Noodle to Paper Bag
Banana to Shelf
Pick up Teddy Bear
Orange to Pumpkin
Put the cup noodle in the paper bag | ✅
5
Interactive Prompting
The era of prompting robot foundation models has arrived. In this section, we show some rollouts of interactive prompting in action, where we take the robot around, and just ask people to
prompt
the robot to do new things. Here are some cool tasks that we found the robot is able to do.
Push Elevator Button
Pop the Balloon
Play Foosball
Pull Cart
Insert Lab Equipment
Water Plant
Place in Lost & Found
Open the Door
Whisk the Bowl
Scan the Snack
Play Pool
Arrange the Pillow
Put Fruit in Basket
Wipe the Counter
Pull Paper Towel
Prompt | "
Move forward and press the elevator button with right arm
"
6
Real-Time Inference & DreamZero-Flash
Through model, system, and implementation optimizations, DreamZero achieves real-time inference at 150ms per action chunk—enabling 7Hz closed-loop control. Combined with asynchronous inference and action chunk smoothing, this results in smooth, responsive execution. Below we compare rollouts using 16, 4, and 1 diffusion steps: fewer steps reduce latency while DreamZero-Flash maintains performance even at single-step inference. We additionally show the effect of action chunk smoothing and asynchronous inference on execution quality.
DreamZero
DreamZero-Flash
Show Generated Videos from DreamZero
DreamZero (16 diffusion step)
DreamZero (16 diffusion step) + action chunk smoothing
DreamZero (16 diffusion step) + async & action chunk smoothing
DreamZero (4 diffusion step)
DreamZero (4 diffusion step) + action chunk smoothing
DreamZero (4 diffusion step) + async & action chunk smoothing
DreamZero (1 diffusion step)
DreamZero (1 diffusion step) + action chunk smoothing
DreamZero (1 diffusion step) + async & action chunk smoothing
←
→
What's Next?
How far can zero-shot generalization go? We've been stress-testing DreamZero with tasks we never trained on, in environments we've never seen. From fanning burgers to pressing elevator buttons, playing xylophones to shaking tambourines, we keep discovering surprising new capabilities. DreamZero is just the beginning of the new wave of robot foundation models built on video world models!
Fan the burger
Press elevator button
Play xylophone
Shake tambourine
Pour into human-held cup
Open laptop
Ring the bell
Flip the pancake
Water the plant
+90 more...
🎬
Explore 100+ Zero-Shot Task Rollouts →
A living gallery that grows as we discover what DreamZero can do
World Models
Zero-shot Generalization
Read about the details:
DreamZero
: World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Citation
If you find this work useful, please cite our paper:
Copy
@misc{ye2026worldactionmodelszeroshot,
      title={World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies},
      author={Seonghyeon Ye and Yunhao Ge and Kaiyuan Zheng and Shenyuan Gao and Sihyun Yu and George Kurian and Suneel Indupuru and You Liang Tan and Chuning Zhu and Jiannan Xiang and Ayaan Malik and Kyungmin Lee and William Liang and Nadun Ranawaka and Jiasheng Gu and Yinzhen Xu and Guanzhi Wang and Fengyuan Hu and Avnish Narayan and Johan Bjorck and Jing Wang and Gwanghyun Kim and Dantong Niu and Ruijie Zheng and Yuqi Xie and Jimmy Wu and Qi Wang and Ryan Julian and Danfei Xu and Yilun Du and Yevgen Chebotar and Scott Reed and Jan Kautz and Yuke Zhu and Linxi "Jim" Fan and Joel Jang},
      year={2026},
      eprint={2602.15922},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.RO},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.15922},
}
