Playful Agentic Robot Learning | RATs
[#top]
Playful Agentic
Robot Learning
Junyi Zhang1,*,†,
Jiaxin Ge1,*,†,
Hanjun Yoo1,†,
Letian Fu1,‡,
Zihan Yang2,‡,
Yaowei Liu2,‡,
Raj Saravanan1,‡
Shaofeng Yin2,
Justin Yu1,
Dantong Niu1,
Zirui Wang1,
Roei Herzig1,
Ken Goldberg1,
Yutong Bai1
David M. Chan1,
Ion Stoica1,
Angjoo Kanazawa1,
Jiahui Lei1,§,
Haiwen Feng1,2,§,
Trevor Darrell1
1University of California, Berkeley · 2Impossible Research
*: project leads, ordered by coin flip; †,‡,§: equal contribution
Code
Paper
arXiv
Your browser does not support embedded video.
[#overview]
Contents
Abstract
Method
Team
Results
Analysis
BibTeX
RATs learns before it is asked. The system uses self-directed play to
propose useful manipulation tasks, solve them with a specialized robot-agent team,
and distill successful behavior into callable code skills.
Before downstream tasks arrive, RATs practices, diagnoses, and accumulates reusable skills.
[#abstract] Abstract
Current agentic robot systems can write executable Code-as-Policy programs, observe
feedback, and revise behavior across attempts, but they remain largely task-driven.
RATs studies Playful Agentic Robot Learning, where an embodied coding agent
uses self-directed play as a continual skill-learning stage before downstream tasks
arrive.
During play, RATs proposes novel yet learnable tasks, plans and executes robot-code
policies, verifies intermediate progress, diagnoses failures, retries with feedback,
and distills successful executions into a persistent code skill library. The resulting
skills improve held-out downstream tasks and can be plugged into other inference-time
Code-as-Policy agents without model finetuning.
[#method]
Method
Learning through purposeful play
RATs turns autonomous interaction into a persistent, reusable skill library.
01
Find the competence frontier
The task proposer favors rarely tried object-skill combinations that remain learnable: neither trivial nor impossible.
02
Plan and write robot code
A planning agent retrieves relevant skills, while execution agents turn the grounded plan into a robot-control program.
03
Turn failures into feedback
Goal and per-step verifiers localize failures. A diagnoser routes concrete feedback into retries or isolated SubAgent practice.
04
Carry skills into future tasks
Successful routines become named code skills that can be retrieved, composed, and transferred to unseen environments.
[#deep-dive]
A team built around useful feedback
RATs couples task proposal, team execution, verification, diagnosis, and memory updates.
Next iteration
[#team-cycle-arrowhead]
01Proposal
Choose what to practice
The Task Proposer finds novel, learnable objectives grounded in the current scene and prior experience.
02Planning
Ground the attempt
The planner turns each proposed task into ordered steps and retrieves only the skills relevant to those steps.
03Execution
Write and run code
The Policy Writer generates executable robot-control programs. A SubAgent isolates persistent local bottlenecks.
04Verification
See what worked
Goal and per-step verifiers separate final success from intermediate progress and make retries more targeted.
05Memory
Keep the useful parts
Successful behavior becomes reusable code; failures become compact lessons that shape future practice.
[#results]
Results
Play pays off downstream
[#in-domain-heading] In-domain improvement
Skills improve downstream performance.
+20.6pp
LIBERO-PRO
+17.0pp
MolmoSpaces
[#generalization-heading] Cross-environment / sim-to-real generalization
RATs skills plug into different simulation environments and real-world settings without task-specific model finetuning.
+8.9pp
RoboSuite cross-environment transfer
+8.8pp
Real-world transfer
Result videos
All
Real world
Simulation
Close drawer
Real-world manipulation with reusable robot skills.
Cube transfer
Real-world transfer of learned localization and transport routines.
Open drawer
Real-world manipulation with learned grasping and pulling routines.
Wipe plate
Real-world plate wiping with reusable robot skills.
LIBERO
Reusing learned skills across downstream simulation tasks.
MolmoSpaces
Composing learned skills for diverse articulated-object tasks.
RoboSuite
Transferring the learned skill library across simulation environments.
[#analysis]
Analysis
What the robot learns while playing
A
Play broadens the practiced objective set
Across iterations, the proposer explores object-skill combinations rather than repeatedly sampling the same easy behavior.
Distribution of proposed play objectives.
B
Knowledge accumulates across play
The persistent skill library lets useful routines survive beyond a single episode and become ingredients for later tasks.
Growth of the learned library through play.
C
Skills compose differently by task
Opening, closing, picking, and placement tasks retrieve distinct mixtures of learned perception, geometry, grasping, and motion helpers.
Learned skill calls during MolmoSpaces evaluation.
D
Verification turns failures into reusable feedback
Step-level checks expose where direct synthesis fails and give the agent concrete evidence for targeted retries and skill refinement.
Verification and learned skills reduce repeated low-level synthesis failures.
E
Successful skills transfer beyond play
Verified routines become persistent tools that can be retrieved and composed for downstream evaluation tasks.
Skill lineage from autonomous play to downstream reuse.
[#bibtex]
Citation
BibTeX
@article{rats2026playful,
title = {Playful Agentic Robot Learning},
author = {Zhang, Junyi and Ge, Jiaxin and Yoo, Hanjun and Fu, Letian and Yang, Zihan and Liu, Yaowei and Saravanan, Raj and Yin, Shaofeng and Yu, Justin and Niu, Dantong and Wang, Zirui and Herzig, Roei and Goldberg, Ken and Bai, Yutong and Chan, David M. and Stoica, Ion and Kanazawa, Angjoo and Lei, Jiahui and Feng, Haiwen and Darrell, Trevor},
journal = {arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.19419},
year = {2026}
}
RATs
Playful Agentic Robot Learning
Website design inspired by the
ECHO project page,
which is modified from Nerfies.